```
*******************************************************************************
*                              MR. DRILLER                                    *
*                           for Sega Dreamcast                                *
*                            FAQ/Walkthrough                                  *
*                                                                             *
*                          Guide By:  SloDeth                                 *
*                                                                             *
*                      v1.0       January 31, 2001                            *
*******************************************************************************




Table of Contents

0. Introduction
 What is Mr. Driller?
 Is this the latest version of this guide?
 Can I use this guide?
 Can I send you E-mail?

1. Version History

2. Basics

3. Strategy

4. Time Attack Mode
 General Strategy

      --SET ONE--

 Level A-Subway
  Regular Walkthrough
  ADV Walkthrough
 Level B-Classic
  Regular Walkthrough
  ADV Walkthroug
 Level C-Armory
  Regular Walkthrough
  ADV Walkthrough
 Level D-Egypt
  Regular Walkthrough
  ADV Walkthrough

     --SET TWO--

 Level E-Nessie
  Regular Walkthrough
  ADV Walkthrough
 Level F-Ice Age
  Regular Walkthrough
  ADV Walkthrough
 Level G-Dinosaur
  Regular Walkthrough
  ADV Walkthrough

    --SET THREE--

 Level H-Ammonite
  Regular Walkthrough
  ADV Walkthrough
 Level I-Mansion
  Regular Walkthrough
  ADV Walkthrough

    --SET FOUR--

 Level J-Lab
  Regular Walkthrough
  ADV Walkthrough

5. This Space Reserved For Future Use

6. Contact Info
   E-mail address
   ICQ #
   Web Page
   Copyright Info


===============
0. Introduction
===============

********************
What is Mr. Driller?
********************
Mr. Driller is a great puzzle game released by Namco, makers of games such as
Soul Calibur and the Tekken series.  It is described as a cross between Dig Dug
and Tetris, but there's much more to it.  Give it a rent if you're curious.
This game also came out on Playstation and Game Boy Color, but this guide is
specifically for the Dreamcast version of the game.

****************************************
Is this the latest version of the guide?
****************************************

Maybe.  My personal web site(go.to/SloDethFAQs) will always have the latest
version of my guide.  www.gamefaqs.com will have any new versions of my guides
within a day or so, and vgstrategies.about.com is also reliable.  If you found
it at any other web site, it might not be the latest.

***********************************
Can I use this guide on my website?
***********************************

It depends.  Here's how it is:

YOU MUST E-MAIL ME(slodeth@iname.com) AND ASK FOR PERMISSION!

You may not make any changes to it.  You can ask, but the answer will be "no" 
 in almost every case.

You cannot make it seem like you wrote the guide yourself IN ANY WAY.  It must
 be clear that it is my original work.

You may not re-write it yourself in your own style.  It's called plagiarism.
 Even if you change every word, plagiarism is the theft of IDEAS.

If I grant you permission by E-mail, you should give me a hyperlink to the web
 site on which you post the guide.

**********************
Can I send you E-mail?
**********************

Yes, but PLEASE read the Contact Info section at the bottom of the guide FIRST!

==================
1. Version History
==================

v1.0 - January 31, 2001 - Fixed the guide up for public release.  This will be
 the final version if I don't start getting some feedback on it...I'm a little
 discouraged here.

v0.9 - January 12, 2001 - First version.  Complete, except for the final
 walkthrough for the Lab.


=========
2. Basics(i.e. what's in the instruction book but you are too lazy to look)
=========

Here's the deal...you are Mr. Driller.  Downtown is in serious trouble because
colored blocks are coming out of the sewers and overrunning the city!  It's
your job to dig underground and find the root of the problem!

On the game board, you can drill(destroy a block) in any direction in your 
quest to reach the bottom.

Each level has four, three, or two colors of blocks.  When any blocks of the
same color touch each other, they bind together into one larger block.  These
larger blocks will create roofs for you while you dig.

If a goup of four or more blocks falls at all, or if it comes in contact with
another block of the same color, it will be destroyed.  This can easily cause
some dangerous chain reactions!

In Arcade and Survival Mode, you'll also find air capsules.  These restore 20%
of your air, which gradually decreases as you play.  When your air reaches 0%,
you die!  Not only will these capsules save your life, but they're worth big
points.  The first capsule is worth 100 points, and every next one is worth
100 points more.  If you want big points in Arcade Mode, get as many air 
capsules as you can.

Another element of the game is the X-block.  These brown blocks can only be
destroyed with five drillings, and it will cost you 20% of your air.  NEVER
destroy these unless it is absolutely necessary!  Do whatever you can to avoid
these.

As you get deeper and deeper in the game, you'll find more X-blocks and the air
capsules are harder to ger(usually surrounded by X-blocks).  To get these, you
must destroy the X-blocks with a chain reaction(good) or drilling(bad, waste of
effort).  If you can get some X-blocks to form a group of four or more and you
get them destroyed, you'll have access to the air capsules and a boost to your
score.  You'll probably get pretty desparate for air near the bottom, so work
fast.

===========
2. Strategy
===========

I don't have much in the way of strategy for this game.  This is one of those
games that you can't learn by reading about it...you have to play it!  Thus is
the way with most puzzle games...just look at the lack of good FAQs for Tetris.
I can't even beat Survival Mode...

-As the reviewer over at IGN said, the trick to this game is finding a balance
 between drilling downward like a maniac and planning your moves slowly and
 strategically.  This is almost purely a matter of opinion...think about it:
 what do you do when you're running low on air in the depths of the game?  Do
 you want to drill rapidly, looking for an easy capsule to grab, or do you want
 to waste time and your precious air, trying to get that tough air capsule?
 Either way, you could get killed.

-As you drill straight down, be careful when you move to the side.  All the
 blocks above you will fall on top of you.  If you're lucky, the first falling
 block will bind with another block of the same color on the way down, creating
 a nice little roof for you.

-The rounds with only two colors of blocks can get pretty crazy with the rapid
 chain reactions.  Make sure you don't have any blocks over your head while you
 drill and fall downwards.  Once you reach the bottom, you can probably collect 
 a handful of air capsules if you destroyed most of the blocks.


===================
3. Time Attack Mode
===================

In this mode, you must complete each level within a certain time to clear it.
These levels each have set designs, so you'll probably end up memorizing the
level before you beat it.  Each level is filled with clocks, which decrease
your time by a set number of seconds.  You'll need to collect most, if not all,
of these to complete the level in good time.  Also, destroying X-blocks in this
mode will add five seconds to your time.  Don't do it!

When you begin the game, you only have access to levels A-D.  When you complete
those, you'll get access to E-G.  Complete those for H and I, then complete
those for the final course J.  After you complete J, you'll get to start all
over again on the ADV courses!  These are mirror images of the old courses, and
their target times are much, much lower.

I created this walkthrough solely because these levels are VERY, VERY DIFFICULT
to beat!  I couldn't find any good advice for these levels, so I spent hours 
and hours figuring them out for myself.  For each level, I will do my best to
explain the best path through each level.  First, I will explain the basic 
ideas and strategies behind the level.  Then, I will detail the path through
the normal and ADV course.  They are exactly in reverse of each other, but I
decided to write them both out anyway.  You just might need it...

****************
GENERAL STRATEGY
****************
As soon as you begin a level, don't worry about the time at all!  I guarantee
that every time will be OVERWHELMING at first.  If you start a level by
worrying about the time, you'll only get frustrated.

Start each level by exploring it slowly.  Try to find the best path through the
level.  Even if you plan to follow my walkthrough word-for-word, you will still
memorize the path through the level eventually if you plan to succeed.

YOU choose when to start the level!  Even when the START! blocks fall onto the
screen, the timer doesn't start until you start drilling.  Don't start until
you are mentally prepared.

Your goal is to get to the bottom as quickly as possible.  Unfortunately, you
can't drill that fast!  In each level, you need to collect the clocks, which
subtract time.  Also, note that FALLING is much faster than DRILLING.  Try to
drill into big blocks and follow their paths.  Also, don't drill into blocks
that you don't need to.


To beat the target time, you must move constantly.  For starters, learn to
drill constantly.  Every level begins with around 50 feet of downward drilling,
so it's an important skill.  Learn the rhythm for pressing the A button that
has Mr. Driller drilling constantly.

When you reach the bottom and you know you didn't finish quickly enough, press
START and choose RETRY.  You can start over without going through the screens.
Do the same thing when you die.  As soon as you get flattened, you have a few
seconds to choose RETRY.

**************
Level A-Subway
**************

Regular Goal: 15.00 sec      ADV Goal: 10.00 sec        My ADV Time: 9.92 sec

BASICS: This level is just an introduction to Time Attack, so it shouldn't be
too difficult.  Drill your way to the bottom, moving left and right to try to
get those clocks.

-------------------
Regular Walkthrough
-------------------

Drill down 50 feet.  Go right to the hole and the clock.  Drill down to the 
next hole, then drill left and down to the clock.  Drill down and walk right to
the next clock.  Drill down, left, and down, then walk left, then drill down 
and left to the next clock.  Drill down to the next yellow block, then go right
to the next hole and clock.  Go down and over to the yellow T-shaped block.
Drill it and follow the path down, then drill down twice and drill right to 
fall on the four clocks.  Drill down to the next hole, then walk right to the 
next clock.  Drill down to the blue block, walk left, then drill down once and
left once to the clock.  Drill down twice, walk right, then drill right to the
next clock.  Drill down, left, down, right, then drill all the way down to the
bottom.

---------------
ADV Walkthrough
---------------

Drill down 50 feet.  Go left to the hole and the clock.  Drill down to the next
hole, then drill right and down to the clock.  Drill down and walk left to the
next clock.  Drill down, right, and down, then walk right, then drill down and
right to the next clock.  Drill down to the next yellow block, then go left to
the next hole and clock.  Go down and over to the yellow T-shaped block.
Drill it and follow the path down, then drill down twice and drill left to fall
on the four clocks.  Drill down to the next hole, then walk left to the next
clock.  Drill down to the blue block, walk right, then drill down once and
right once to the clock.  Drill down twice, walk left, then drill left to the
next clock.  Drill down, right, down, left, then drill all the way down to the
bottom.


***************
Level B-Classic
***************

Regular Goal: 17.00 sec      ADV Goal: 12.00 sec        My ADV Time: 11.21 sec

BASICS:  This level is pretty simple once you figure out the path.  There are
enough big blocks to form a nice path to the bottom.  You shouldn't have a
problem with this level.

-------------------
Regular Walkthrough
-------------------

Drill down 50 feet.  Go left and drill down the big blue block to the next
clock.  Drill down and walk towards the right to the next clock.  Drill down
and walk right to the next clock.  Drill right and follow the path all the way,
then drill left and follow the path to the next clock.  Drill left, walk
left, then drill left to the next clock(drilling down would save time, but
you can't grab the clock).  Drill down though the big yellow, pink, then blue
blocks.  Drill right, then follow the path to the clock.  Drill left twice
to the next clock.  Drill through the big blue, yellow, blue, then pink blocks
to the bottom of the level.

---------------
ADV Walkthrough
---------------

Drill down 50 feet.  Go right and drill down the big blue block to the next
clock.  Drill down and walk towards the left to the next clock.  Drill down
and walk left to the next clock.  Drill left and follow the path all the way,
then drill right and follow the path to the next clock.  Drill right, walk
right, then drill right to the next clock(drilling down would save time, but
you can't grab the clock).  Drill down though the big yellow, pink, then blue
blocks.  Drill left, then follow the path to the clock.  Drill right twice
to the next clock.  Drill through the big blue, yellow, blue, then pink blocks
to the bottom of the level.


**************
Level C-Armory
**************

Regular Goal: 23.00 sec      ADV Goal: 15.00 sec        My ADV Time: 14.90 sec

BASICS: This is where it gets serious.  You can't fake your way through this
one.  There are four groups of X-blocks in this level that surround a handful
of clocks.  You must get some other X-blocks to collide with them to make them
disappear and unlock the clocks.  The best way is to drill a path under them,
then find a safe place to await the avalanche.

-------------------
Regular Walkthrough
-------------------

Drill down 50 feet.  Go left all the way, then start drilling down.  Drill
right when you get to the ]-shaped red block, then drill all the way right to 
the  hole in the X-blocks.  Wait for the structure to fall, then go left and
collect the five clocks.  Drill left, then drill down.  Drill down for a ways,
then start drilling against the stairstep of the X-blocks.  When you start
drilling under the X-blocks, drill to the right but stop before you drill the
final yellow block.  The structure will fall, but before it does, go back to
the left and drill the single green and yellow blocks.  Also, drill the
double green block above you.  Allow the clock to fall on you, then quickly go
right and collect the clocks.  Go right and drill down, near the side with the
X-blocks.  When you reach the bottom, drill left to and through the yellow
single block, then go back right to the hole.  Catch the clocks as they fall.
Drill down the right side, switching right and left as you have the chance to 
hit a double block.  Drill to the left through the triple-yellow block, then
go right to the hole.  Grab the clocks as they fall, but when you reach the
rightmost clock, stop!  Wait for the 2-sec clock to fall, then continue walking
left.  When you reach the last clock, drill down through the big blue, green,
blue, then pink blocks to the bottom.

---------------
ADV Walkthrough
---------------

Drill down 50 feet.  Go right all the way, then start drilling down.  Drill
left when you get to the ]-shaped red block, then drill all the way left to the 
hole in the X-blocks.  Wait for the structure to fall, then go right and
collect the five clocks.  Drill right, then drill down.  Drill down for a ways,
then start drilling against the stairstep of the X-blocks.  When you start
drilling under the X-blocks, drill to the left but stop before you drill the
final yellow block.  The structure will fall, but before it does, go back to
the right and drill the single green and yellow blocks.  Also, drill the
double green block above you.  Allow the clock to fall on you, then quickly go
left and collect the clocks.  Go left and drill down, near the side with the
X-blocks.  When you reach the bottom, drill right to and through the yellow
single block, then go back left to the hole.  Catch the clocks as they fall.
Drill down the left side, switching left and right as you have the chance to 
hit a double block.  Drill to the right through the triple-yellow block, then
go left to the hole.  Grab the clocks as they fall, but when you reach the
leftmost clock, stop!  Wait for the 2-sec clock to fall, then continue walking
right.  When you reach the last clock, drill down through the big blue, green,
blue, then pink blocks to the bottom.

*************
Level D-Egypt
*************

Regular Goal: 22.00 sec      ADV Goal: 16.00 sec        My ADV Time: 15.62 sec

BASICS: This level is very confusing.  You have to make choices of your path
in many, many places.  There's no way to get all the clocks here, so try to
pick the path with the easier clocks.

-------------------
Regular Walkthrough
-------------------

Drill down 45 feet.  Go down the left path to the first clock.  It won't save
that much time, but drill to the right until you get to the 3-sec clock.  Go
back left, drill through the double blue and the big yellow blocks, then grab
the clock.  Take the left path here.  Drill down to the ]-shaped green block,
then drill it and follow the path around.  Drill straight down and take the
clock.  Drill through the bigger blocks to the next clock.  Drill to the next
big opening and take the clock.  Go right and drill downwards as soon as you 
get off the X-blocks.  Once you hit the big yellow rock, go right and drill 
down.  Get to the next opening and take the clock.  This place marks a tough 
decision between right and left.  The left path looks a little quicker, but I 
always  choose the right path instead.  Anyway, go right and drill down the 
zigzag.  After you drill the big blue block, go to the bottom without worrying
about any clocks on the left side.

---------------
ADV Walkthrough
---------------

Drill down 45 feet.  Go down the right path to the first clock.  It won't save
that much time, but drill to the left until you get to the 3-sec clock.  Go
back right, drill through the double blue and the big yellow blocks, then grab
the clock.  Take the right path here.  Drill down to the ]-shaped green block,
then drill it and follow the path around.  Drill straight down and take the
clock.  Drill through the bigger blocks to the next clock.  Drill to the next
big opening and take the clock.  Go left and drill downwards as soon as you get
off the X-blocks.  Once you hit the big yellow rock, go left and drill down.
Get to the next opening and take the clock.  This place marks a tough decision
between left and right.  The right path looks a little quicker, but I always 
choose the left path instead.  Anyway, go left and drill down the zigzag.
After you drill the big blue block, go to the bottom without worrying about any
clocks on the right side.

**************
Level E-Nessie
**************

Regular Goal: 21.00 sec      ADV Goal: 19.00 sec        My ADV Time: 18.67 sec

BASICS: This one isn't too hard.  Once you figure out the strategies for using
the X-blocks, you'll find that the path is easy to find and execute.  The ADV
time is only two seconds shorter than the regular, so it won't take too long to
beat this one the second time.

-------------------
Regular Walkthrough
-------------------

Drill down to 65 feet.  Drill right quickly, then drill down to 80 feet.  Drill
right and left as you wait for the X-block to fall.  Drill down to 120 feet, 
then wait for the X-block to fall.  Move over left once, then drill down to 
235 feet.  Drill right and wait for the reaction.  You'll begin falling.  Some 
time after 300 feet, you need to switch to the column directly right of you to 
grab a clock, then switch back once you grab it to grab another clock.  Once 
you have all those clocks, move to the column right of the center.  Drill your 
way through big blocks to the bottom.

---------------
ADV Walkthrough
---------------

Drill down to 65 feet.  Drill left quickly, then drill down to 80 feet.  Drill
left and right as you wait for the X-block to fall.  Drill down to 120 feet, 
then wait for the X-block to fall.  Move over right once, then drill down to 
235 feet.  Drill left and wait for the reaction.  You'll begin falling.  Some 
time after 300 feet, you need to switch to the column directly left of you to 
grab a clock, then switch back once you grab it to grab another clock.  Once 
you have all those clocks, move to the column left of the center.  Drill your 
way through big blocks to the bottom.

***************
Level F-Ice Age
***************

Regular Goal: 20.00 sec      ADV Goal: 17.00 sec        My ADV Time: 16.85 sec

BASICS: This level is difficult, but it's not too complicated.  You won't have
a problem with multiple paths here.  This may be the first Regular level that
really stresses you out.  Good luck...

-------------------
Regular Walkthrough
-------------------

Drill down to 70 feet.  Drill right, down, right, down, left, down, then left.
Zigzag your way through this place.  Stay in the middle of it-you don't need to
move a full square to fall.  Subtle movements will get you down quickly.  At
180 feet. drill down twice and left twice.  Go down the steps here quickly.
At 255 feet, drill down to the next open area.  In here, you need to drill up
while under the yellow block, then quickly go left before the X-blocks crush
you.  If you don't move fast here, you'll die.  At 280 feet, drill straight
down to the next open area.  When you exit it at 325 feet, drill straight down
until you find the next X-block formation.  Quickly go all the way left to get
the clocks, then back right before it crashes down.  Drill down thrice, left
twice, then down to the exit.

---------------
ADV Walkthrough
---------------

Drill down to 70 feet.  Drill left, down, left, down, right, down, then right.
Zigzag your way through this place.  Stay in the middle of it-you don't need to
move a full square to fall.  Subtle movements will get you down quickly.  At
180 feet. drill down twice and right twice.  Go down the steps here quickly.
At 255 feet, drill down to the next open area.  In here, you need to drill up
while under the yellow block, then quickly go right before the X-blocks crush
you.  If you don't move fast here, you'll die.  At 280 feet, drill straight
down to the next open area.  When you exit it at 325 feet, drill straight down
until you find the next X-block formation.  Quickly go all the way right to get
the clocks, then back left before it crashes down.  Drill down thrice, right
twice, then down to the exit.

****************
Level G-Dinosaur
****************

Regular Goal: 23.00 sec      ADV Goal: 17.00 sec        My ADV Time: 16.93 sec

BASICS: Hmm.  This level is very hard.  Each section has multiple paths and
tricks, so nothing will be easy about this level.  Good luck.

-------------------
Regular Walkthrough
-------------------

Drill down 55 feet.  Go right once, then drill down to the 4-square pink block.
Drill left through the blue, then the yellow block.  Drill down to 120 feet,
which is the same height as the 2-second block.  Move left, then wait for the
3-second clock to fall.  Climb the X-block to get the 3-second clock, then go
over to the 2-second clock(drill through a block or two, if your timing is
different).  Drill down to the blue L-block, and follow its path.  Drill left
and downward to get to a very large blue block, then follow its path to the
next clock.  Drill down to the next X-block.  Drill left and then drill down
to the next X-block, then repeat.  Follow the only path(right and downward) to
the tall yellow block, and follow it down.  Drill right and around this group
of X-blocks until you are under the 3-second clock.  Start drilling down, and
the X-blocks will dissipitate and the clock will fall on your head.  Drill
left into the T-shaped green block, then continue down to get a 2-second
clock.  Continue right and downward to get the next clock.  Go all the way left
and drill the final big blue block.  Follow its path down, then drill right and
down.  Wait for a final chain reaction to leave you at the bottom.

---------------
ADV Walkthrough
---------------

Drill down 55 feet.  Go left once, then drill down to the 4-square pink block.
Drill right through the blue, then the yellow block.  Drill down to 120 feet,
which is the same height as the 2-second block.  Move right, then wait for the
3-second clock to fall.  Climb the X-block to get the 3-second clock, then go
over to the 2-second clock(drill through a block or two, if your timing is
different).  Drill down to the blue L-block, and follow its path.  Drill right
and downward to get to a very large blue block, then follow its path to the
next clock.  Drill down to the next X-block.  Drill right and then drill down
to the next X-block, then repeat.  Follow the only path(left and downward) to
the tall yellow block, and follow it down.  Drill left and around this group
of X-blocks until you are under the 3-second clock.  Start drilling down, and
the X-blocks will dissipitate and the clock will fall on your head.  Drill
right into the T-shaped green block, then continue down to get a 2-second
clock.  Continue left and downward to get the next clock.  Go all the way right
and drill the final big blue block.  Follow its path down, then drill left and
down.  Wait for a final chain reaction to leave you at the bottom.

****************
Level H-Ammonite
****************

Regular Goal: 25.00 sec      ADV Goal: 17.00 sec        My ADV Time: 16.13 sec

Congratulations!  You've completed seven levels, but you're only halfway
through!  Level H and I are 1000 feet deep each, and Level J is 1500 feet deep.
These final levels will involve many more chain reactions.  You'll spend most
of your time falling and desperately trying to grab clocks.

BASICS: In this level, you spend your time falling as chain reactions occur
one after the other.  Finding a good path through this level was very 
difficult.  Don't try to get all the clocks in this level...it's a waste of
time.

-------------------
Regular Walkthrough
-------------------

Drill down 60 feet.  Drill right, then down.  Wait, and you will land on a
clock.  Hold left until you collect two more clocks.  Move to the right, then
grab the clock in the center when it appears.  Move back left and find another
clock.  This part of the level is pretty dangerous, so be careful and take your
time.  When you can reach it, take the 2-second clock in the center and 
continue moving right.  You should stay in the column directly right of the
center and drill until you can grab the clock to your left, then move further
right until you find the path to the bottom.

For the second half, drill left down the center to the first clock.  Wait for
a reaction to start, then continue drilling down to the next clock.  Continue
drilling down until you can grab a clock on your left.  Grab it and move back
to drilling down the center.  At one point, you have to wait for a chain
reaction.  Once it happens, drill like mad until you go through a huge yellow
block.  Move left(under 2 X-blocks) and drill down to a 2-square blue block.
Drill it and move left to get a clock.  Drill and move right and down to the
next clock.  Drill down twice, then move right to the final clock.  Drill down
to the bottom.

---------------
ADV Walkthrough
---------------

Drill down 60 feet.  Drill left, then down.  Wait, and you will land on a
clock.  Hold right until you collect two more clocks.  Move to the left, then
grab the clock in the center when it appears.  Move back right and find another
clock.  This part of the level is pretty dangerous, so be careful and take your
time.  When you can reach it, take the 2-second clock in the center and 
continue moving left.  You should stay in the column directly left of the
center and drill until you can grab the clock to your right, then move further
left until you find the path to the bottom.  Your time here should be under
nine seconds.

For the second half, drill right down the center to the first clock.  Wait for
a reaction to start, then continue drilling down to the next clock.  Continue
drilling down until you can grab a clock on your right.  Grab it and move back
to drilling down the center.  At one point, you have to wait for a chain
reaction.  Once it happens, drill like mad until you go through a huge yellow
block.  Move right(under 2 X-blocks) and drill down to a 2-square blue block.
Drill it and move right to get a clock.  Drill and move left and down to the
next clock.  Drill down twice, then move left to the final clock.  Drill down
to the bottom.

***************
Level I-Mansion
***************

Regular Goal: 14.00 sec      ADV Goal: 12.00 sec        My ADV Time: 10.62 sec

BASICS: This level is very simple one you figure out the tricks.  The level is
filled with elevator-like X-block formations.  The chain reactions happen so
that you can move from one elevator to the next to the very bottom of the
level.  Besides one part in the second half, you'll understand it quickly.

-------------------
Regular Walkthrough
-------------------

Drill down 75 feet, then move left into the first elevator.  When it stops,
drill right and move all the way right to the next elevator.  When it stops,
drill and move left to the next elevator.  When it stops, drill and move right.
You need to hitch a ride on this elevator(walk into it at the appropriate 
time as it falls).  When it stops, drill and walk all the way left and hitch
a ride on the next elevator.  When it stops, drill and walk right to the next
clock.  When this X-block formation collapses, drill to the bottom quickly.
A block is coming down to land on your head, so be quick.  Drill to either side
if you must.

Drill down to the height of the clocks.  Grab the right clock, then quickly go
to the left clock and ride this elevator down.  When it stops, go all the way
right to the next elevator.  When it stops, walk all the way left on the
platform that forms(cool, eh?) to the next clock.  Walk right and grab the 
clock in the X-block sandwich, then get out of it to the left(drill through the
blue block).  As the X-blocks fall, walk right to the middle of them until they
collapse and you fall for a short distance.  Drill left to the next elevator.
When it stops, drill and walk right to the next one.  When it stops, drill and
walk left to the next one.  When it stops, drill and walk right to the next
one.  When it stops, drill left and follow the path to the bottom.

---------------
ADV Walkthrough
---------------

Drill down 75 feet, then move right into the first elevator.  When it stops,
drill left and move all the way left to the next elevator.  When it stops,
drill and move right to the next elevator.  When it stops, drill and move left.
You need to hitch a ride on this elevator(walk into it at the appropriate 
time as it falls).  When it stops, drill and walk all the way right and hitch
a ride on the next elevator.  When it stops, drill and walk left to the next
clock.  When this X-block formation collapses, drill to the bottom quickly.
A block is coming down to land on your head, so be quick.  Your time here
should be under eight seconds.

Drill down to the height of the clocks.  Grab the left clock, then quickly go
to the right clock and ride this elevator down.  When it stops, go all the way
left to the next elevator.  When it stops, walk all the way right on the
platform that forms(cool, eh?) to the next clock.  Walk left and grab the clock
in the X-block sandwich, then get out of it to the right(drill through the blue
block).  As the X-blocks fall, walk left to the middle of them until they
collapse and you fall for a short distance.  Drill right to the next elevator.
When it stops, drill and walk left to the next one.  When it stops, drill and
walk right to the next one.  When it stops, drill and walk left to the next
one.  When it stops, drill right and follow the path to the bottom.

***********
Level J-Lab
***********

Regular Goal: 25.00 sec      ADV Goal: 17.00 sec        My ADV Time: 16.35 sec

BASICS: They couldn't have made this level much harder.  The paths aren't very
clear-cut, the clocks seem randomly placed, and it's 1500 feet deep.  To make
it worse, the times are as restrictive as possible.  I spent about an hour just
trying to beat this level in Regular, then you need to take off eight more
seconds in ADV mode.  Luckily, when you reach this final level in ADV mode,
you should have improved greatly...but this level will still bring you to your
knees.  I recommend you try it out, then leave for a week or so until you can
gain back your confidence.  Play it over and over again, trying new paths until
you find the one that you think must be the quickest, then try new ones.

I had a path planned out for this level, but the only way I got my time was by
deriving from it.  I haven't been able to reproduce this.  All I can tell you is
that every path you take probably isn't the absolute quickest.  When a level is
this long and so reliant on perfect timing, there is no way I can find my way
through this level perfectly.  It's up to you to solve this puzzle yourself!  For
your reference, I finished the first 500 feet in under 8 seconds and the second
500 feet in under 15 seconds.  The last 500 feet have enough clocks to help you
make up for lost ground.


===============
6. Contact Info
===============

E-mail:    slodeth@iname.com
ICQ UIN:   15025844
Web Page:  http://go.to/SloDethFAQs


E-mail Rules:
Include the name of the game or guide in the subject.  Driller is enough.
E-mail me just about ANYTHING: questions(not answered in the guide), comments,
   praise, criticism, requests...
Ask me if you can use this guide.  I will almost certainly let you, as long as
   you ask politely.
Don't E-mail me crap.  Don't ask me to join a website, like AllAdvantage.
   I've received way too many of those.
Check your email over and make sure you used correct spelling, decent grammar, 
   and capitalization.  If you spend less than one minute writing an email to me,
   I will spend less than a minute to reply to you.
PLEASE check the latest version of the guide before you email me.  I don't like
   answering qustions that are already answered in my guide.
AOL slang is not up to my standards.  Don't use "r u" instead of "are you" or
   anything like that.  It gets on my nerves.  If you do that thing where you
   capitalize every other letter, don't expect a response.

ICQ Rules:
Do whatever you wish.  I don't care about ICQ very much.  Put my number on spam
   lists, tell it to your friends, and flood it with whatever you want.

What you can find at my web page:
-More info on me(in case you care)!
-Links to all of my guides!
-The most recent versions of my guides!
-HTML versions of my guides!
-Feedback forms, surveys, and some other crap!
-News on what I've done and what I plan on doing!
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Please do not distribute this guide in any way without my explicit permission.
I'm sure you could use it and mutilate it to your pleasing, but I'd appreciate
it if you write to me first.  I'm very willing to give out this guide, given
that it is not changed in any way.

Or, as they say, This document Copyright 2000 by Martin Silbiger.
                              .___.
          /)               ,-^     ^-.
         //               /           \
.-------| |--------------/  __     __  \-------------------.__
|-=====-| |>>>>>>>>>>>>> | />>\   />>\ |>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>:>
`-------| |--------------| \__/   \__/ |-------------------'^^
         \\               \    /|\    /
          \)               \   \_/   /
                            |       |
                            |{/\/\/}|
                            \       /
                             ^-----^

:'######::'##::::::::'#######::'########::'########:'########:'##::::'##:
'##... ##: ##:::::::'##.... ##: ##.... ##: ##.....::... ##..:: ##:::: ##:
 ##:::..:: ##::::::: ##:::: ##: ##:::: ##: ##:::::::::: ##:::: ##:::: ##:
. ######:: ##::::::: ##:::: ##: ##:::: ##: ######:::::: ##:::: #########:
:..... ##: ##::::::: ##:::: ##: ##:::: ##: ##...::::::: ##:::: ##.... ##:
'##::: ##: ##::::::: ##:::: ##: ##:::: ##: ##:::::::::: ##:::: ##:::: ##:
. ######:: ########:. #######:: ########:: ########:::: ##:::: ##:::: ##:
:......:::........:::.......:::........:::........:::::..:::::..:::::..::

```
